**Background**
As more and more states have started legalizing marijuana in the US, the traditional viewpoint of how governments punish drug use has come under question. Recently, countries like Portugal, Switzerland, and the Netherlands have developed extremely lenient policies regarding the sale and use of recreational drugs. Others, including Malaysia, China, and Iran, impose harsh penalties — including death — to any citizens caught with drugs. As drug usage continues to rise worldwide, it is crucial to understand the relationship between governmental regulations and drug-related hospitalizations. In 2021, Oregon became the first US state to decriminalize possession of illegal drugs. As more US states start to consider more lenient drug policies, it is important to analyze the potential positive or negative effects associated with drug laws.

**Question**
Do more severe nation-wide drug penalties affect the number of hospitalizations as a result of drug abuse?

**Data**
The initial dataset we chose to work with contains information about the total number of deaths due to various risk factors from over 200 countries, spanning 1990 to 2017. This data will allow us to compare deaths due to drugs across each of the countries we are interested in investigating. The time element allows us to observe how the number of deaths was affected after the passage of specific drug laws in countries like Portugal (which instituted its current policy in 2001). By doing so, we will be able to directly observe the impact of drug policies and can better select which features to incorporate into our model.

**Proposal**
The objective of this project is to understand how the United States may be impacted by adopting a more lenient drug policy, such as one similar to Portugal’s or Switzerland’s. We will do this by training a model on the existing data regarding drug-related hospitalizations from countries with different levels of drug penalty severity. Features that we are currently considering in addition to drug policy include population, some infrastructure rating (such as GDP), and policies of neighboring countries. After validating our model on a validation set, we will use data from the United States to predict future hospitalizations from drug-related incidents inferring that the US adopts a lenient policy akin to the more lenient ones we are studying.
